About Oliver Wyman

Oliver Wyman is a global leader in management consulting. With offices in more than 70 cities across 30 countries, Oliver Wyman combines deep industry knowledge with specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, and organization transformation. The firm has more than 6,000 professionals around the world who work with clients to optimize their business, improve their operations and risk profile, and accelerate their organizational performance to seize the most attractive opportunities. Oliver Wyman is a business of Marsh McLennan [NYSE: MMC]. For more information, visit www.oliverwyman.com. Follow Oliver Wyman on Twitter @OliverWyman.

Practice Overview: Energy

Oliver Wyman’s Energy practice distinguishes itself by the value it creates for clients.  We bring deep industry knowledge and state-of-the-art problem-solving capabilities and tools tailored to the needs of our clients. Oliver Wyman helps utilities and energy companies address strategic and operational challenges through proven, results-oriented approaches: we assist our clients to examine and pursue new market, product / service and acquisition opportunities; develop strategies and plans to address market shifts and regulatory challenges; increase customer satisfaction, loyalty and earnings; and optimize operations and organizational effectiveness. We have completed hundreds of engagements for leading electric and gas utilities and oil and gas clients across North America, Europe and the Middle East, creating sustainable shareholder value.

Within ENR, we have a specialized Commodity Trading and Risk Practice, with global presence. We serve more than 80% of the Trading environment across a myriad of topics ranging from trading organizational set up, risk management, commercial and operational optimization of trading entities, analytics and AI advisory. We also have Trading Systems and Analytics arm called ‘Veritas’; a group that focusses solely on the ETRM, analytics and AI systems enablement of Trading entities.

Our Americas lead of Commodity Trading and Risk sits in Houston and overseas both the Strategy Advisory and Veritas arms of the business. The team size in Houston is ~50 people.

Role: Engagement Manage
Within ENR, we have a special our consulting team, working side-by-side with our clients. The position offers excellent career and growth opportunities for talented, highly motivated professionals with relevant prior experience. Initial responsibilities typically include:

Providing day to day leadership of client projects to Associates and Consultants, as well as aspects of the client relationship and commercial process within those relationships; teaming with Partners and sharing responsibility for the success of a specific engagement(s)
Leading and managing complex programs to ensure on-time delivery that meets agreed upon goals, leveraging Oliver Wyman best practices, one’s own expertise and the firm’s technical competencies.
Guiding and influencing clients in an informed way across all situations including execution of the commercial process, becoming trusted advisors.
Engaging fully in building business by identifying new and expanded opportunities for the client
Creating exciting and additive intellectual capital through thought leadership, and are knowledgeable on a broad range of adjacent topics.
Developing others and building a followership as part of their asset building for the firm
Leading firm building activities, seen as a role model for firm values with a strong personal brand within and outside of the firm and are well regarded by Partners, peers, and clients.
Overseeing and guiding the consulting team as they develop hypotheses, review client information, and conduct client interviews, derive insights, and produce deliverables.
Supporting Partners in project execution through excellent project management, including work planning, workflow management, and coaching / developing more junior team members
Desired Skills and Experience

Engagement Managers serve as the primary contact point for senior client executives and Oliver Wyman consultants staffed on client engagements. While specific responsibilities will vary based on previous experience the ideal candidate will have the following:

5-7 years of experience in Supply & Trading Strategy & transformation
Experience in serving Oil & Gas and/ or Power clients (Integrated Majors, Independent Traders, Hedge Funds etc.)
Conceptual understanding of Trading Operating Models and Commercial Optimization
Strong background in conceptual problem solving and analytical skills
Track record of leading and managing teams and delivering against tight deadlines in fast paced and demanding environments
Outstanding communication skills; confidence in presenting to senior executives
Undergraduate or advanced degree from a top academic program
Ideally located in Houston
Willingness to travel

Oliver Wyman, a business of Marsh McLennan (NYSE: MMC), is a management consulting firm combining deep industry knowledge with specialized expertise to help clients optimize their business, improve operations and accelerate performance. Marsh McLennan is a global leader in risk, strategy and people, advising clients in 130 countries across four businesses: Marsh, Guy Carpenter, Mercer and Oliver Wyman. With annual revenue of $24 billion and more than 90,000 colleagues, Marsh McLennan helps build the confidence to thrive through the power of perspective. For more information, visit oliverwyman.com, or follow on LinkedIn and X.
